In the last lecture we talked about robot
joint control and that’s the problem of
how do we control the motor which is actuating
the joint angle in a robot arm.
Now in a real robot, this control problem
is a little bit more complicated than we talked
about in the last lecture and a pretty simple
example can make that clear.
If you consider in the problem of controlling
my shoulder joint, then the weight of my arm,
gravity acting on this arm is going to exert
a torque on my shoulder and so the arm is
going to want to fall down, so it’s the
muscles in my arm, have to apply an opposite
torque in order to keep my arm horizontal.
So, a really important factor in robot arm control
is the influence of gravity, the weight force
that acts on the various links of a robot’s arm.
Now, another problem is to do with the change
in inertia. The motor, which is driving, for
instance my shoulder joint sees the inertia
of the motor itself, but it also sees the
inertia of this link, so in order to accelerate
this, going to have to accelerate all this
part of my arm and that requires
additional torque in the motor in order to
achieve a particular acceleration; it’s
a function of the inertia of my arm.
Now, the inertia depends on the configuration
of my arm. My arm here is got maximum inertia
about the shoulder axis, but if the arm
was in a configuration like this, it’s got
less inertia. If it was in a configuration
like this, it’s got less inertia still.
So, the configuration of the links outwards
from a particular joint are going to affect
the inertia that that joint sees. So all of
these sorts of effects, the gravity problem
and the inertia problem are lumped together
in what we call rigid body dynamic effects
and that’s what we’re going to talk about
in this particular lecture.
Now, in the last lecture, we put up this block
diagram and we worked our way through all
the different blocks in the diagram. In this
lecture, what we’re going to do is put the
spotlight on the robot joint itself; this is where one joint interacts with the other joints in the robot arm.
This is where the effects like changing gravity
and changing inertia, these are mechanic effects,
come from the robot joint, back through the gearbox and they influence the motor within the robot joint.
So, that’s the purpose of this lecture,
is to try and unpack some of these issues,
see how these gravity problems and the inertia
effects, impact on the individual motors that
are driving the individual joints.
We can’t ignore these effects if we want
to do high quality control of robot joint motion.